Name: Abiral Pandey
Email: abiral.pandey88@gmail.com
Phone: 940-242-3303
Current Location: Woonsocket, Rhode Island
Visa Status: US Citizen

SUMMARY:
Dynamic individual with 6 years of software development experience in design, development, deployment, maintenance, production and support of web - based and Client-Server business applications using OOP and Java/J2EE technologies.
Exposure to all phases of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) using Agile, RUP, Waterfall.
Designed and developed web UI screen using Angular-JS.
Developed AngularJS Controllers, Services, filters and directives for various modules in the application.
Knowledge on ETL tools like Kettle Pentaho and Microsoft SSIS tools.
Created custom directives, decorators and services using AngularJS to interface with both RESTful and legacy network services also DOM applications.
Experience with MVC frameworks like Struts, SPRING and ORM tools like Hibernate.
Experienced in working with batch jobs using Spring-Batch, Autosys and Quartz.
Worked extensively with XML related technologies like XML/XSLT to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML using DOM and SAX parsers for DTD and SCHEMAand also worked with JAX-B.
Strong experience in J2EE technologies like Java Beans, Servlets, JSP (including custom tags), JSTL, JDBC, Struts, Spring, JMS, JNDI and Multithreading.
Expertise in web development technologies like HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, JSF, AJAX, Bootstrap JS, Node JS and Angular JS.
Experienced in RESTful web services using JAX-RS, Jersey framework and SOAP using JAX-WS, Axis-2 framework.
Expert knowledge over J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Adapter, Front End Controller, Value object, Singleton, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Factory DAO in designing the architecture of large applications.
Experience in using Maven and Ant build scripts for the project build automation.
Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like SVN, Clear Case and CVS.
Expertise in working with various Application Servers such as IBM WebSphere, JBoss, Glassfish, Oracle WebLogic and Apache Tomcat server.
Good knowledge in using IDE’s such as Eclipse, NetBeans, JBuilder, RAD and STS.
Expertise in working with Relational databases such as Oracle, PostgreSQL, DB2, MySQL and NoSQL database MongoDB.
Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, views and good at writing complex queries for Oracle 10g/11g.
Good experience in developing test cases with JUnit for Unit testing, Load testing and logging using Log4J.
Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows 98 / 2000 / NT / XP, AIX, Sun Solaris.
Proficient in software documentation and technical report writing.
Involved in Performance analysis and improvements of the application using tools like Jmeter and using commands on Unix box to resolve deadlocks and improve performance.

TECHNICAL SKILLS:
Programming Languages: Java/J2EE, PL/SQL, Unix Shell Scripts
Java/J2EE Technologies: JavaBeans, collections, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, RMI, EJB
Frameworks: Struts 1.x/2.x, Spring 2.5/3.0, Web Framework, JSF, Hibernate, iBatis, JPA, Axis-2, Jersey
Methodologies/Design Patterns: OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, Singleton, DTO Pattern, DAO Pattern, Service Fa ade, Factory Pattern
Build Automation: Jenkins, Maven, Ant
Application/Web Servers: IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x, BEA Web Logic 8.1/9.1, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x, JBOSS 4.x/3.x
XML processing: DTD, Schema, JAX-P (DOM, SAX), JAX-B
Web Services: RESTful, SOAP
Web Development: HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, LADP, JSF, Bootstrap JS, Node JS, Angular JS
Version Control Tools: CVS, Harvest, IBM Clear case, SVN and GIT
Databases: Oracle 9i/10g/11g, IBM DB2, SQL Server 2005/2008, PostgreSQL, MySQL, MangoDB
Messaging Techologies: JMS, IBM MQ
IDE s: Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD, WSAD
Testing and Logging Frameworks: Junit, Log4j, Mockito, Finesse Tests
Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports 11, Jasper Reports
Tools: Rational Rose, MS Visio, XML Spy, TOAD
Operating Systems: Windows 98/2000/NT/XP, AIX, Sun Solaris, HP-UX
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:

CVS, Woonsocket, Rhode Island                                 Full Stack Java Developer
April 2016 – Present
Responsibilities:
Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) deliverables of the project using the Agile methodology.
Used AWS Cloud platform and its features which include EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, Cloud Front, S3, and Route53. 
Expertise in building rich, interactive user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.Js and Angular.Js.
Gathered and clarified requirements with business analyst to feed into high-level customization design, development and installation phases.
Used Spring Framework for dependency injection for Action classes using Application Context XML file. 
Involved in implementation of MVC pattern using JSP and Spring Controller.
Developed business objects using Spring IOC, Spring MVC and Spring AOP. Implemented MVC architecture using JSP Spring, Hibernate and used Spring Framework to initialize managed beans and services.
Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL, UDDI and XML.
Used Collections for Model classes in the DAO layer (Data Access Object) Involved in modifying some changes in DAO layer using Hibernate.
Created mappings among the relations and written SQL queries using Hibernate.
Implemented Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary.
Used Entity Beans to persist the data into IBM DB2 database like database access components, Creating Schemas and Tables.
Used SQL to perform data mapping and backend testing, also documented all the SQL queries for future testing purpose.
Created process flow for deploying application in Web Sphere application server.
Managed build, reporting and documentation from the project information using Jenkins, Maven Tool and SVN for version control.
Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration.
Used JUnit for testing and used JIRA for tracking bugs.
Responsible for the dealing with the problem, bug fixing and troubleshooting.
 Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Spring, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, REST, SOAP, XML, Eclipse, PL/SQL, JUnit, Maven Build Tool, DB2, JIRA, Jenkins, SVN and IBM Web Sphere, AngularJS, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, Auto scaling

Toll Brothers, Horsham Township, Pennsylvania                  Software Engineer
December 2015 -  March 2016
Responsibilities:
Developed JSP and extensively used tag libraries. 
Designed the system with OOAD methodology using various design patterns like factory method, Singleton, Adaptor, Template etc. 
Implementing and planning the server-side architecture using Spring and Hibernate 
Configured the spring framework for entire business logic layer with XML bean configuration files. 
Preparation of Low Level Designing and High Level Designing and relevant documentation. 
Extensively used Spring IOC for Dependency Injection and worked on Custom MVC Frameworks loosely based on Struts 
experienced in build tools like Micro services, Ant, Maven and Gradle tools.
Wrote Controller classes in Spring MVC framework in the web layer. 
Produced the shopping cart on the client Front-end using jQuery, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3. 
Extensively used Eclipse based STS IDE for building, developing and integrating the application. 
Used Table per hierarchy inheritance of hibernates and mapped polymorphic associations. 
Developed one-much, many-one, one-one annotation based mappings in Hibernate. 
Wrote queries Using Cassandra CQL to create, alter, insert and delete elements. 
Developed DAO service methods to populate the domain model objects using hibernate. 
Used java collections API extensively such as Lists, Sets and Maps.  
Wrote DAO classes using spring and Hibernate to interact with database for persistence. 
Developed components of web services (JAX-WS, JAX-RPC) end to end, using different JAX-WS standards with clear understanding on WSDL, SOAP using various message patterns  
Performed on e-Commerce by using JSF framework and JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5 pages
Wrote and tested Java Beans to retrieve trading data and subscriber's information from MySQL database server,
 Extensive experience in Angular.JS for application implementation, proficient in creating modules, controllers, route-Providers, factory services, ng-repeat, customizable filter, http get/post methods and directives to realize functionalities like REST service with Ajax call , input validations, searchable and sortable contents.  
Implemented Unit and Integration test cases with JUnit Framework based on Functional Flow. 
Used tools like My Eclipse IDE, configured and deployed the applications onto Web Logic application server 
Configured Log4j for logging and debugging 
 Environment: Eclipse, Java J2EE, HTML, JSP, JAX RPC, JAXB, CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery, Spring MVC, Hibernate, RESTful web services, Apache Tomcat7.0, Cucumber, Cassandra, Junit, Jenkins, Maven, GitHub, XML, Log4j, EJB, MySQL, Ajax.

Dairy Farmers of America, Kansas City, Missouri                      Java Developer
November 2014 – December 2015
Responsibilities:
Responsible for developing use cases, class and sequence diagram for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.
Identifying and design of common interfaces across multiple systems or modules of social insurance.
Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture. UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams, interaction diagrams (sequence and collaboration) and activity diagrams were used.
Developed J2EE modules using XMI and CORE JAVA.
Interaction with Business users for user and system acceptance testing.
Validated the data against the business rules.
Data access layer is implemented using Hibernate.
Used Apache POI to generate Excel documents
Implemented Struts action classes.
Used Spring Security for Authentication and authorization extensively.
Utilized Eclipse to create JSPs/Servlets/Hibernate that pulled information from a Oracle database and sent to a front end GUI for end users.
Used JDBC for Oracle database connection and written number of stored procedures for retrieving the data.
Developed modules for validating the data according to business rules and used Castor to convert data into array of XML strings and XSLT for transformation.
Used Hibernate for data persistence.
Developed SOAP based HTTP requests for communicating with Web Services.
Was involved in the design of multi-tier architecture using EJB, Servlets and JSP.
Used Spring Dependency Injection properties to provide loose-coupling between layers.
Collaborated with Web designers to create the JSP pages, applying HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and Struts Tags.
Extensively worked on debugging using Logging Frameworks such as Apache Log4j.
Created test plans for unit testing to validate component functionality.
Environment: Java 1.4.2, J2EE, Servlets, MVC, Web services, Struts, Spring - Core, MVC, Security, Eclipse, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, EJB, JSP, JDBC, JAX-B, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, Log4j, Oracle 10g, Apache POI, Caster, XMI.

Bank of Utah, Ogden, Utah                                                           J2EE Developer
May 2013 – October 2014

Responsibilities:
Designed and developed Servlets and JSP, which presents the end user with form to submit the details of the problem.
Created SQL statements and triggers for the effective retrieval and storage of data from the database.
Performed JUnit testing, proposed and implemented performance enhancements, worked with Oracle databases, running SQL scripts and stored procedures.
Developed Restful based Web Services.
Was involved in the design of multi-tier architecture using EJB, Servlets and JSP.
Developed Servlets used to store user information in the database, which makes a JDBC-ODBC connection to the database and inserts the details into to the database.
Designed and developed a Servlet, which presents the engineer a form to submit solution to particular problem.
Setting up test environments and configuring various components of the application using JDBC API to establish a connection with oracle database and configuring.
Designed and developed a Servlet, which allows the end user to query on the problem, makes a JDBC-ODBC connection to the database and retrieve the details regarding the call number and the status of the submitted problem.
Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Custom tags, JDBC, JUNIT, Restful, Data Source, DAO, VO Patterns, Tomcat 5.0, SQL, Oracle 9i, Linux.


Epsilon, Irving, Texas                                                         Junior Java Developer
January 2012 – April 2013
Responsibilities:
Designed the user interfaces using JSP.
Developed Custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces.
Developed the application using Struts (MVC) Framework.
Implemented Business processes such as user authentication, Account Transfer using Session EJBs.
Used Eclipse to writing the code for JSP, Servlets, Struts and EJBs.
Deployed the applications on Web Logic Application Server.
Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) and Backend messaging for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.
Developed the Ant scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.
Used JDBC for database connectivity to Oracle.
Worked with Oracle Database to create tables, procedures, functions and select statements.
Used JUnit Testing, debugging and bug fixing.
Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and developed WAR framework to alert the client and production support in case of application failures.
Worked in Rational Unified Process (RUP) Methodology.
Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, Struts, EJB, JMS, Oracle, HTML, XML, Web Logic, Ant, CVS, Log4J, JUnit, JMS, PL/SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE, UNIX Shell Scripting, Rational Unified Process (RUP).
Education: 
Bachelor of Computer Science – University of North Texas, Denton, Texas